updated keyboard_remote integration for config flow (#43881)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/keyboard_remote.markdown

---
title: Keyboard Remote
description: Instructions on how to use a keyboard or remote control as an input device for automations in Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Other
ha_release: 0.29
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@bendavid'
  - '@lanrat'
ha_domain: keyboard_remote
ha_integration_type: hub
ha_quality_scale: bronze
---

The **Keyboard Remote** {% term integration %} lets you use a USB or Bluetooth keyboard, remote control, or any Linux `evdev`-compatible input device to trigger automations in Home Assistant. Instead of creating entities, the integration fires events whenever a key is pressed, released, or held down. You can listen for these events in your automations to control lights, media players, or anything else in your smart home.

Each input device is added as a separate integration entry, so you can connect multiple keyboards or remotes and configure them independently.

> Because the integration uses the Linux `evdev` interface, it works only on Linux-based Home Assistant installations. The integration captures the device exclusively, which means a keyboard you add here can no longer be used for regular typing at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the integration uses the Linux `evdev` interface, it works only on Linux-based Home Assistant installations. The integration captures the device exclusively. This means a keyboard you add here can no longer be used for regular typing.
```

## Prerequisites

Before setting up the integration, make sure you meet the following requirements:

> - Your Home Assistant instance runs on a Linux-based system (Home Assistant OS, Home Assistant Supervised, or Home Assistant Container on Linux).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your Home Assistant instance runs on a Linux-based system (Home Assistant OS, or Home Assistant Container on Linux).
```
We no longer document Supervised

- The input device you want to use is connected to your system and recognized by Linux. For Bluetooth devices, pair them first using your operating system's Bluetooth settings.

> - The Home Assistant process has read and write access to the device files under `/dev/input/`. On Home Assistant OS and Supervised, this is handled automatically. For Home Assistant Container, see the [Containers](#running-in-a-container) troubleshooting section below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Home Assistant process has read and write access to the device files under `/dev/input/`. On Home Assistant OS, this is handled automatically. For Home Assistant Container, see the [Containers](#running-in-a-container) troubleshooting section below.
```

Emulate key hold:
  description: "When enabled, the integration emulates `key_hold` events in software for devices that do not send them natively. Disabled by default."
Key hold delay:
  description: "The number of seconds to wait before the first emulated key hold event is fired (0.01 to 5.0 seconds). Only applies when **Emulate key hold** is enabled. Default: 0.250 seconds."
Key hold repeat interval:
  description: "The number of seconds to wait between subsequent emulated key hold events (0.001 to 1.0 seconds). Only applies when **Emulate key hold** is enabled. Default: 0.033 seconds."
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Events

The integration does not create any entities. Instead, it fires events on the Home Assistant event bus that you can use as triggers in your automations.

{% tip %}
To discover the key codes for your device, go to {% my developer_events title="**Settings** > **Developer tools** > **Events**" %}. In the **Listen to events** section, enter `keyboard_remote_command_received` and select **Start listening**. Then press a key on your device to see its key code and other event data.
{% endtip %}

> ### keyboard_remote_command_received

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Keyboard remote command received
```
I would use the same style here we use for actions: non-YAML style in the title, but mentioning the YAML in the introduction.
https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L139

> Fired whenever a key event occurs that matches your configured event types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `keyboard_remote_command_received`event is fired whenever a key event occurs that matches your configured event types.
```

- `key_code` — The numeric key code (evdev) for the key involved in the event
- `type` — The event type: `key_up`, `key_down`, or `key_hold`
- `device_descriptor` — The `/dev/input/` path of the device
- `device_name` — The human-readable name of the device

> ### keyboard_remote_connected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Keyboard remote connected
```

> Fired when a configured device is detected or reconnected. This is useful for Bluetooth devices that turn off automatically to save battery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `keyboard_remote_connected` event is fired when a configured device is detected or reconnected. This is useful for Bluetooth devices that turn off automatically to save battery.
```

- `device_descriptor` — The `/dev/input/` path of the device
- `device_name` — The human-readable name of the device

> ### keyboard_remote_disconnected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Keyboard remote disconnected
```

> Fired when a configured device is disconnected or removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `keyboard_remote_disconnected` event is fired when a configured device is disconnected or removed.
```

## Troubleshooting

### Device not listed during setup

If the device dropdown during setup is empty or does not include your device, try the following:

1. Make sure the device is physically connected to your system. For Bluetooth devices, make sure they are paired and active.
2. Check that the device appears under `/dev/input/by-id/`. You can verify this by running `ls /dev/input/by-id/` on your host system.
3. Restart the setup flow after connecting the device.

### Permission denied errors

If the integration fails to access the device, the Home Assistant process may not have read and write permissions on the input device file. You can grant permissions with:

```bash
sudo setfacl -m u:HASS_USER:rw /dev/input/event*
```

Replace `HASS_USER` with the user that runs Home Assistant.

To make this permanent, create a udev rule that applies permissions for all event input devices. Add a file `/etc/udev/rules.d/99-userdev-input.rules` with the following content:

```bash
KERNEL=="event*", SUBSYSTEM=="input", RUN+="/usr/bin/setfacl -m u:HASS_USER:rw $env{DEVNAME}"
```

You can verify the current permissions with:

```bash
getfacl /dev/input/event*
```

### Running in a container

> If you are running Home Assistant Container, you need to pass the input devices through to the container. You can pass a specific device with the `--device` flag (you can repeat this flag to pass multiple devices), but restarting the container or unplugging the keyboard will break the connection because only the device instance that existed when the container started is available inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are running Home Assistant Container, you need to pass input devices to the container. You can pass a specific device using the `--device` flag (you can repeat this flag to pass multiple devices). However, restarting the container or unplugging the keyboard will break the connection, as only the device instance that existed when the container started is available inside it.
```
attempt to break up the long sentence.

    restart: unless-stopped
    device_cgroup_rules:
      # allow creation of /dev/input/* with mknod, this is not enough on its own and needs mknod to be called in the container

>       - 'c 13:* rmw'

Author: This has been addressed in the latest commit.
